AI Agents - initial docs (#2100)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/ai-agents/interact-with-the-ai-agent.md

---
sidebar_position: 3
title: Interact with the AI agent
---

# Interact with the AI agent

import ClosedBetaFeatureNotice from '../generalTemplates/_closed_beta_feature_notice.md'
import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

> <ClosedBetaFeatureNotice 

Author: @hadar-co the callout is generic.
We need to have several options available - "you can't reach out", "you can reach out to email X", "you can reach out to your account manager", "you can fill a form", and more.
The generic part is the text, "this feature is in early access.."
The dynamic part is "how you can reach out to request access"

For the AI agents, in all three pages it's the same "dynamic" part.
but for "scorecards as blueprint" for example, or "Slack app", it will be different.

How do you suggest implementing it?

> <ClosedBetaFeatureNotice 

Reviewer: the issue here is that we are passing the same param multiple times, which defeats the purpose of templating and introduces duplication.
One way to solve it is to use const definitions, like we do here:
https://github.com/port-labs/port-docs/blob/main/docs/build-your-software-catalog/sync-data-to-catalog/templates/_ocean_saas_installation.mdx?plain=1#L59

We can have a file with const definitions of the "dynamic parts", making them reusable.

  accessRequestMethod={
    <span>please reach out to us by filling <a href='https://forms.gle/krhMY7c9JM8MyJJf7'>this form</a>.</span>
  } 
/>

## Getting started

Once you've built your AI agents, it's time to interact with them. Port provides several ways to communicate with your AI agents.

<!-- IMAGE SUGGESTION: Add a diagram showing the different interaction methods and flow between user, router, and specific agents -->

## Interaction options

You have two main approaches when interacting with AI agents in Port:

<Tabs groupId="interaction-approach" queryString>

> <TabItem value="specific-agent" label="Specific Agent">
> 
> Choose a specific agent when you have a structured scenario, such as triggering an agent from an automation. This approach works best when you know exactly which agent has the expertise needed for your task.
> 
> </TabItem>
> <TabItem value="agent-router" label="Agent Router">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="specific-agent" label="Specific agent">

Choose a specific agent when you have a structured scenario, such as triggering an agent from an automation. This approach works best when you know exactly which agent has the expertise needed for your task.

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="agent-router" label="Agent router">
```

Use the agent router when having a more natural conversation, such as through Slack. The router intelligently determines which agent is best suited to handle your request based on its content and context.

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Interaction methods

<Tabs groupId="interaction-methods" queryString>

> <TabItem value="api-integration" label="API Integration">
> 
> Port is an API-first platform, allowing you to integrate AI agents into your custom workflows. The interaction process follows these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="api-integration" label="API integration">

Port is an API-first platform, allowing you to integrate AI agents into your custom workflows.  
The interaction process follows these steps:
```

2. Receive an invocation ID.
3. Poll the entity until the generation is completed.

<img src='/img/ai-agents/AIAgentTriggerFlowDiagram.png' width='70%' />

<details>
<summary><b>API example (Click to expand)</b></summary>

```python showLineNumbers
# Example API call to invoke an agent
import requests
import time

# Invoke the agent
response = requests.post(
    'https://api.getport.io/v1/ai-agents/{agentId}/invoke',
    headers={
        'Content-Type': 'application/json',
        'Authorization': 'Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN'
    },
    json={
        'message': 'What services are currently experiencing incidents?'
    }
)

invocation_id = response.json()['invocationId']

# Function to check status
def check_status():
    status_response = requests.get(
        f'https://api.getport.io/v1/ai-agents/invocations/{invocation_id}',
        headers={
            'Authorization': 'Bearer YOUR_API_TOKEN'
        }
    )
    return status_response.json()

# Poll until complete
result = None
while True:
    time.sleep(1)  # Wait 1 second between polls
    result = check_status()
    if result['status'] == 'COMPLETED':
        break

print(result['response'])
```

</details>

</TabItem>

> <TabItem value="actions-automations" label="Actions and Automations">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<TabItem value="actions-automations" label="Actions and automations">
```

### Plan

The plan shows how the agent decided to tackle your request and the steps it intended to take. This provides insight into the agent's reasoning process.

<img src='/img/ai-agents/agent-plan-example.png' width='80%' border='1px' alt="Example of an AI agent plan" />

### Tools used

This section displays the actual steps the agent took and the APIs it used to complete your request. It can be particularly helpful for debugging when answers don't meet expectations, such as when an agent:

- Used an incorrect field name.
- Chose an inappropriate property.
- Made other logical errors.

### Tokens

Each interaction records both input and output tokens, helping you understand your LLM usage. This information can be valuable for:

- Identifying which agents consume more of your token allocation.
- Optimizing prompts for efficiency.
- Managing costs effectively.

## Limits

Port applies limits to AI agent interactions to ensure fair usage across all customers:

- **Daily query limit**: 100 queries per day.
- **Token usage limit**: 100,000 tokens per day.

> :::caution Usage limits
> These limits may change without prior notice. Once a limit is reached, you'll need to wait until it resets.
> :::
> 
> If you attempt to interact with an agent after reaching a limit, you'll receive an error message indicating that the limit has been exceeded.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
:::caution Usage limits
Usage limits may change without prior notice. Once a limit is reached, you will need to wait until it resets.  
If you attempt to interact with an agent after reaching a limit, you will receive an error message indicating that the limit has been exceeded.
:::

```

        }
    )
    return status_response.json()

# Poll until complete
result = None
while True:
    time.sleep(5)
    result = check_status()
    if result['status'] == 'Completed':
        break

print(result['response'])
```

</details>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="actions-automations" label="Actions and automations">

You can trigger AI agents through Port's actions and automations, allowing you to integrate AI capabilities into your existing workflows.

For example, when a new incident is created in Port, you can trigger an agent that:
- Triages the incident.
- Summarizes relevant information.
- Sends a notification to Slack.

<img src='/img/ai-agents/AIAgentsAutomationExample.png' width='80%'/>

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="slack-integration" label="Slack Integration">

The Slack integration provides the most natural way to interact with Port's AI agents. This method abstracts all technical details, allowing for free-flowing conversations.

You can interact with agents in two ways:

1. **Direct messaging** the Port Slack app.
2. **Mentioning** the app in any channel it's invited to.

When you send a message, the app will:
1. Open a thread.
2. Respond with the agent's answer.

> <img src='/img/ai-agents/AIAgentsSlackExample.png' width='80%'/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<img src='/img/ai-agents/AIAgentsSlackExample.png' width='80%'/>
<br/><br/>
```
